Sylow's theorems are direct applications of group actions and form a generalisation of Cauchy's theorem.

> [!theorem] First Sylow's Theorem
> Let $G$ be a [[Groups, Order and Subgroups#^6e0960|group]] of [[Groups, Order and Subgroups#^3bce31|order]] $p^{n}m$, where $p$ is a [[Division and Prime#^47f235|prime]] and $p\nmid m$. Then $G$ has a [[Groups, Order and Subgroups#^1ccb07|subgroup]] of order $p^{n}$, we call it *$p$-Sylow subgroup*. ^6d90f2

*Proof*  Without loss of generality, we can assume that $n\geq 1$. We use induction on $|G |$. Clearly for $|G | = 1$ there is nothing to prove. Assume it is true for all groups $H$ with order smaller than $p^{n}m$. Suppose it is false for $G$, that is, $G$ has no subgroups of order $p^{n}$. Then, by our induction hypothesis, for every proper subgroup $H < G$, $p^{n}\nmid |H|$. In particular, if $a\notin Z(G)$, then its [[Abelianisation of Groups#^6d802d|centraliser]] $C_{G}(a)$ is a proper subgroup of $G$, and hence $p^{n}\nmid |C_{G}(a)|$. By [[Group Actions#^becec5|class equation]], we have $$ p^{n}m= |G|=|Z(G)|+\sum_{i}[G:C_G(x_i)] $$where $x_i$ are representatives of the non-trivial conjugacy classes. Since $p^{n}\mid |G|$ and $p^{n}\nmid |C_{G}(x_i)|$, we must have $p \mid |Z(G)|$. By [[Group Actions#^ff735e|Cauchy's theorem]], there exists an element $z\in Z(G)$ of order $p$. Let $\langle z\rangle$ be the subgroup generated by $z$. Then $\langle z\rangle\triangleleft G$ and consider the quotient group $G/\langle z\rangle$. We have $$ |G/\langle z\rangle|=\frac{|G|}{|\langle z\rangle|}=\frac{p^{n}m}{p}=p^{n-1}m. $$By our induction hypothesis, there exists a subgroup of order $p^{n-1}$ in $G/\langle z\rangle$, say $K$. Let $\pi\colon G\to G/\langle z\rangle$ be the quotient map. Then $\pi^{-1}(K)$ is a subgroup of order $p^{n}$ in $G$ (ref. [[Isomorphism Theorems#^0f045a|correspondence theorem]]), which is a contradiction. Therefore, our assumption that $G$ has no subgroups of order $p^{n}$ is false. $\square$

<u><b>e.g.</b></u>  
- Consider the [[Permutations and Symmetric Groups#^5b562f|symmetric group]] $S_{4}$, whose order is $24=2^{3}\cdot 3$. [[Sylow’s Theorems#^6d90f2|Sylow's I]] states that $S_{4}$ has a subgroup of order $2^{3}=8$. Indeed, the subgroup $\langle (1 2),(34),(1324)\rangle$ is a subgroup of order $8$. 
- For the [[Dihedral Groups#^0206e0|dihedral group]] $D_{10}$ of order $10=2\cdot 5$, [[Sylow’s Theorems#^6d90f2|Sylow's I]] states that $D_{10}$ has a subgroup of order $5$. Indeed, the subgroup $\langle r\rangle$ generated by a rotation is a subgroup of order $5$.
$\quad$

> [!lemma]
> 


> [!theorem] Second Sylow's Theorem
> Let $G$ be a finite group and $p$ a [[Division and Prime#^47f235|prime]] dividing $|G|$. Then
> - Any two $p$-Sylow subgroups in a finite group $G$ are conjugate;
> - Any $p$-subgroup of $G$ is contained in a $p$-Sylow subgroup.
> $\quad$

*Proof*  Let $H$ be a $p$-subgroup, and $P$ be a $p$-Sylow subgroup. We will show that there is $g\in G$ such that $gHg^{-1}\leq P$. Once we have that, both parts of the theorem are proved. Consider the (left multiplication) action of $G$ on the [[Cosets and Lagrange’s Theorem#^b825de|left coset space]] $G/P$. While this is [[Group Actions#^065d30|transitive]], the (sub) action of $H$ must have a fixed point, because $H$ is a $p$-group, and $|G/P|=m$ is coprime to $p$. Let $gP\in G/P$ be a fixed point of the action of $H$, then for all $h\in H$, we have $hgP=gP$, which implies that $g^{-1}hg\in P$. Therefore, $gHg^{-1}\leq P$. $\square$

> [!theorem] Sylow’s Theorem III
> The number of $p$-Sylow subgroups in a finite group $G$ of order $p^nm$ with $(m,p) = 1$ is of the form $1+kp$ and divides $m$.

*Proof*

> [!corollary]
> A group $𝐺$ has exactly one $𝑝$-Sylow subgroup $𝑃$ if and only if $𝑃$ is normal.
