## Permutations

> [!definition] Permutation
> A permutation is a bijective map $\alpha: \{1,…,n\} \rightarrow \{1,…,n\}$, denoted by:
> $$ \alpha=\left(\begin{array}{ccccc}1 & 2 & 3 & \cdots & n \\\alpha(1) & \alpha(2) & \alpha(3) & \cdots & \alpha(n)\end{array}\right) $$
> or using the cycle notation: if $i_1,i_2,…,i_r$ are distinct elements from $\{1,…,n\}$ and if $\alpha \in S_n$ fixes the other elements (if any) and if
> $$ \alpha\left(i_1\right)=i_2, \alpha\left(i_2\right)=i_3, \ldots, \alpha\left(i_r\right)=i_1 $$
> then $\alpha$ is called $r$-cycle and denoted $(i_1,i_2…i_r)$. Any permutation can be written (non-uniquely) as a product of cycles. Crucially, permutations are composed from right to left. ^caba60

> [!definition] Cycle Decomposition
> The cycle decomposition of permutation $\pi$ is the product of the disjoint cycles in which $\pi$ can be expressed.

<b><u>e.g.</u></b> Consider the permutation $\rho = \begin{pmatrix} 1 & 2 & 3 & 4 & 5 & 6 & 7 \\ 5 & 6 & 1 & 7 & 3 & 2 & 4 \end{pmatrix}$, the cycle decomposition for $\rho$ is $\begin{pmatrix}1 & 5 & 3\end{pmatrix} \begin{pmatrix}2 & 6 \end{pmatrix} \begin{pmatrix}4 & 7 \end{pmatrix}$.

> [!proposition]
> Suppose $\pi$ and $\rho$ are permutations then the cycle decomposition of the permutation $\pi\rho\pi^{−1}$ can be obtained from that of $\rho$ by replacing each $𝑖$ in the cycle decomposition of $\rho$ with $\pi(i)​$, that is $$\sigma(a_{i_1}\dots a_{i_k})\sigma^{−1}=(a_{\sigma(i_1)}\dots a_{\sigma(i_k)}).$$

*Proof*  For any arbitrary $i\in \{1,\dots,n\}$, consider the effect of $\pi \rho \pi^{-1}$ on $\pi(i)$: $$ \pi \rho \pi^{-1} \left( \pi(i) \right)=\pi \rho \left(i\right)=\pi \left( \rho (i) \right) $$Observe that in the cycle decomposition of $\rho$, $i$ lies to the left of $\rho(i)$, hence $\pi(i)$ lies to the left of $\pi(\rho(i))$ in the cycle decomposition of $\pi \rho \pi^{-1}$. $\square$

## The Symmetric Group

> [!definition] Symmetric Group
> The symmetric group $S_n$ plays a fundamental role in finite group theory. It consists of permutations of a set with $n$ letters $\{1,…,n\}$. In general, given a finite set $X$, we have the group of permutations on set $X$ to be:$$ \text{Sym}(X) = \{ f\colon X \to X \mid f \text{ is bijective} \}$$ ^5b562f

> [!theorem]
> The symmetric group $S_n$ is generated by adjacent transpositions: $$\left(1,2\right),\left(2,3\right),\ldots,\left(n-1,n\right)$$ ^013f0e

> [!definition] Even Permutation & Odd Permutation
> A permutation is an even permutation if the number of cycles of even length is even. And it is an odd permutation if the number of cycles of even length is odd. ^c116d4

> [!proposition]
> The sign map $\newcommand{\sgn}{\mathrm{sgn}}\sgn\colon S_n \to \{-1,1\}$ that sends an even permutation to $1$, an odd permutation to $-1$ is a [[Homomorphisms, Normal Subgroup & Conjugation#^homo|group homomorphism]]. ^8ed9de

*Proof*  It is easy to see this by counting the number of transpositions. Even permutation has even number of transpositions, and odd permutation has odd number of transpositions. Thus, the product of two even permutations is even, the product of two odd permutations is even, and the product of an even and an odd permutation is odd. $\square$

> [!proposition]
> The [[Groups, Order and Subgroups#^3bce31|order]] of $S_n$ is $n!$

*Proof*  Clearly, there are $n!$ permutations of $n$ elements. $\square$

> [!definition] Alternating Group
> The alternating group $A_n$ is the subgroup of $S_n$ consisting of all even permutations. In other words, it is the kernel of $\sgn$. ^a33b58

**Def**  <i><u>Permutation Matrices</u></i>
Let $\alpha \in S_n$ be a permutation. The permutation matrix corresponding to $\alpha$ is the unique linear map $T_\alpha : \R^{n} \rightarrow \R^{n}$ which permutes the standard basis as follows: $$ T_\alpha(e_i) = e_{\alpha(i)} $$