We restricted to commutative unital rings for the previous pages, now let us have a look at some non-commutative rings.

> [!definition] Algebra
> An *algebra* is a (possibly non-commutative) [[Ring, Field and Integral Domain#^178485|ring]] $A$ equipped with a [[Vector Spaces#^f4b63e|vector space]] structure over a field $F$ such that the multiplication is compatible with the scalar multiplication. That is, the ring multiplication $\cdot\colon A\times A\to A$ is bilinear: for all $u,v,w\in A$ and $a\in F$ we have $$(au+v)\cdot w=a(u\cdot w)+(v\cdot w), \quad w\cdot(au+v)=a(w\cdot u)+(w\cdot v).$$ The algebra is called non-associative if the multiplication is non-associative. It is unital if there is an element $1 ∈ A$ such that $1\cdot a=a\cdot 1=a$ for all $a ∈ A$. ^2c3d07

<u><b>e.g.</b></u> Matrices with entries in some [[Ring, Field and Integral Domain#^575174|field]] $F$, with scalar multiplication and matrix multiplication are a prominent example of an algebra. Polynomials with scalar and polynomial multiplication are another. One example which will become an important prototype for the structures we study in this course is an algebra constructed from an arbitrary group, called the group algebra:

> [!definition] Group Algebra
> Given a group $G$ and a field $F$, the group algebra $F[G]$ of $G$ over $F$, as a [[Vector Spaces#^f4b63e|vector space]], is given by formal linear combinations of elements of $G$: that is, the vector space with basis $G$. The algebra multiplication given by the bilinear extension of multiplication in $G$. ^a15722

<u><b>e.g.</b></u> The quaternions $\mathbb{H}$ is the subring ($\R$-subalgebra) of $M_2(\mathbb{C})$ generated by the matrices: $$ \begin{bmatrix} 1 & \\ & 1 \end{bmatrix}, \begin{bmatrix} i & \\ & -i \end{bmatrix}, \begin{bmatrix} & 1\\ -1 & \end{bmatrix}, \begin{bmatrix} & i\\ i & \end{bmatrix} $$

> [!proposition]
> A group algebra $F[G]$ is isomorphic to finitely supported $F$‑valued functions on $G$ with convolution product.
> 

*Proof*  We can identify each $\sum_{i\leq n}a_{i}g_{i}$ with a function $f\colon G\to F$ defined by $f(g_{i})=a_{i}$ for $i\leq n$ and $f(g)=0$ for all other $g\in G$. Under this identification, the multiplication in $F[G]$ corresponds to the convolution product of functions: $$(f*h)(g)=\sum_{x\in G}f(x)h(x^{-1}g).$$ $\square$

## Ideals in Non-Commutative Rings

> [!definition] Ideals in Non-Commutative Rings
> When the ring is non-commutative we have three variants of an ideal: an abelian subgroup $I ⊂ R$ in a ring $R$ is
> - left ideal if $ra∈I$ for all $a∈I$ and $r ∈R$
> - right ideal if $ar ∈I$ for all $a∈I$ and $r ∈R$
> - a two-sided ideal if it is both left and right.
>$\quad$

<u><b>e.g.</b></u> In $M_n(F)$ the left (right) ideals are matrices having some columns (rows) consisting of zeros and the other columns (rows) arbitrary. There are no non-trivial two-sided ideals in $M_n (F )$, it is a simple ring.