---
created: 2023-11-04
updated: 2024-09-26
---
## Polynomials

> [!definition] Polynomial Ring
> Let $R$ be a ring. The polynomial ring in one variable over $R$ is the set of sequences:$$\{ (a_n)_{n=0}^\infty \mid a_n \in R, \exists n_0\in \mathbb{N}, a_n=0 \text{ for all } n\geq n_0  \}$$Equivalently,$$ R[x] = \left\{ \sum_{n=0}^\infty a_n x^n \mid a_n \in R, \exists n_0\in \mathbb{N}, a_n=0 \text{ for all } n\geq n_0  \right\}$$with addition $(a_n)+(b_n)=(a_n+b_n)$ and multiplication $(a_n)\cdot(b_n)=(\sum_{k=0}^n a_kb_{n-k})$.

> [!proposition]
> $R[x]$ is a ring. The identity $1$ is the polynomial $(1+0x+0x^2+\dots)$.

> [!definition] Degree and Leading Term
> The degree of a polynomial $f = \sum_n a_n x^n ∈ R[x]$, denoted $\deg(f)$, is the largest $n$ with $a_n \neq 0$. The element zero does not have a degree.

> [!definition] Leading Term & Monic
> The term $a_{n} x^{n}$ for $n = \deg(f)$ is called the leading term of $f$. The polynomial $f$ is called monic if the coefficient of the leading term is $1$.

> [!proposition]
> For all $f,g\in R[x]$, $\deg(f g) \leq \deg(f )+\deg(g)$ with equality if and only if $R$ is a [[Ring, Field and Integral Domain#^domain|integral domain]].

> [!proposition]
> $R[x]^\times = \{r+ 0x+0x^2+\dots \mid r\in R \} \cong R^{\times}.$

> [!proposition]
> If $R$ is an integral domain, then $R[x]$ is an integral domain.

## Division with Remainder

> [!theorem]
> Let $R$ be a ring and $f,g \in R[x]$ with $f$ monic. Then there are uniquely determined polynomials $q,r \in R[x]$, such that $g = f \cdot q + r$ and such that $\deg(r) < \deg(f)$ or $r=0$. The polynomial $q$ is called the quotient and the polynomial $r$ is called the remainder.

**Def**  *<i><u>Substitution Principle I</u></i>* and *<i><u>Polynomial Function</u></i>* 
Let $R$ be a ring and $p=a_nx^n+···+a_1x+a_0 \in R[x]$. The substitution of $α ∈ R$ in $p$ is the element$$p(\alpha)=a_n\alpha^n+···+a_1\alpha+a_0 \in R$$A function $f : R → R$ is called a polynomial function if there exists $p ∈ R[x]$ such that $f (α) = p(α)$ for every $α ∈ R$.

> [!corollary]
> Let $g ∈ R[x]$ and $α ∈ R$. The remainder of division of $g(x)$ by $x − α$ is $g(α)$. It follows that $x − α$ divides $g(x)$ if and only if $g(α) = 0$.

*Proof*  We have unique $q,r \in R[x]$ such that $g(x) = (x-\alpha) q(x)+r(x)$ and $\deg(r) < \deg (f)=1$ or $r=0$. Hence $x − α$ divides $g(x)$ if and only if $g(α) = 0$. $\square$

**Corollary**  A polynomial in $F$ of degree $n$ over a field $F$ (more generally, a domain) has at most $n$ roots.

> [!definition] Multivariable Polynomials
> For $x_1,\dots,x_n$ and $i = (i_1,\dots,i_n) ∈ \mathbb{N}^n$ we write $x^{i}=x_1^{i_1} \dots x_n^{i_n}$. The degree of $x^i$ is $i_1+ \dots + i_n$. The collection of all these is called the ring of polynomials in $n$ variables with coefficients in $R$ and denoted $R[x_1,\dots,x_n]$.

> [!proposition]
> $$\frac{R[x,y]}{(f(x),g(y))}\cong\frac{(R[x]/(f(x)))[y]}{g(y)}$$
> 

**Prop** Every ideal in the polynomial ring $F[x]$ over a field $F$ is principal. A non-zero ideal in $F[x]$ is generated by the unique monic polynomial of lowest degree that it contains.

**Proof**

**Def** _Greatest Common Divisor_
Let $F$ be a field and $f , g ∈ F [x ]$ be non-zero elements. The greatest common divisor $d ∈ F[x]$ of $f$ and $g$ is the unique monic polynomial that generates the ideal $(f , g )$. It has the properties:
1. $(d)=(f)+(g)$
2. $d \mid f,g$
3. If $e\mid f,g$ then $e\mid d$
4. There are polynomials $p,q$ such that $d=pf+qg$