Let us denote the [[Vector Fields and Lie Algebra#^a87ff1|vector fields]] on $S^1$ as $\newcommand{\Diff}{\mathrm{Diff}}\newcommand{\Vect}{\mathrm{Vect}}\Vect(S^{1}):=\mathfrak{X}(S^{1})$. We can identify each vector field at $e^{i\theta}\in S^1$ as $f(e^{i\theta})\pddf{}{\theta}$, for some real function $f\in C^{\infty}(S^{1})$. So it is clear that $C^{\infty}(S^{1})\cong \Vect(S^{1})$. The Lie bracket of two vector fields is then $$\left[f(e^{i\theta})\pddf{}{\theta},g(e^{i\theta})\pddf{}{\theta}\right]=(fg'-gf')(e^{i\theta})\pddf{}{\theta}.$$

> [!definition] Diffeomorphism Group of the Circle
> Denote the group of orientation preserving diffeomorphisms of the circle as $\Diff^{+}(S^{1})$. 
> 

The most important property of $\Diff^{+}(S^{1})$ is that it is a simple group, and it can be generated by the exponential maps.

> [!lemma]
> $\Diff^{+}(S^{1})$ is simple.

> [!corollary]
> $\Diff^{+}(S^{1})$ is generated by the flows of vector fields in the Lie algebra $\Vect(S^{1})$ via the exponential map.

*Proof*  First observe that $S^{1}$ is [[Compactness of Topological Space#^da2511|compact]], so every smooth vector field $X\in\Vect(S^{1})$ gives rise to a [[Integral Curves and Flows#^990d6a|global flow]], which is a one-parameter subgroup of diffeomorphisms, denoted as $G(X)$. Since $\Diff^{+}(S^{1})$ is simple, it suffices to show that $G(X)$ is [[Homomorphisms, Normal Subgroup & Conjugation#^normal|normal]] in $\Diff^{+}(S^{1})$. This follows from the Denjoy's theorem. 

> [!proposition]
> $\Diff^{+}(S^{1})$ is an infinite dimensional Lie group whose Lie algebra is identified with the real topological vector space $\Vect(S^{1})$ of smooth vector fields on $S^{1}$ with the usual $C^{\infty}$ topology.
> 

*Proof*  It is clear that $\Diff^{+}(S^{1})$ forms a group under composition. We first show that $\Diff^{+}(S^{1})$ is a smooth manifold. First, it is a topological space, because it can be seen as a subspace of $C^{\infty}(S^{1},S^1)$ with $C^{\infty}$ topology. Moreover, the exponential map provides a chart about the identity. Specifically, $C^{\infty}(S^1)$ is a Fréchet space, and consider a map $\varphi_{0}\colon C^{\infty}(S^1)\to \Diff^{+}(S^{1})$, that sends any function $F\in C^{\infty}(S^{1})$ to the corresponding global flow (since $S^{1}$ is compact, a smooth function in $C^{\infty}(S^{1})$ always gives rise to a global flow) generated by $F$. We claim that a neighborhood of $0\in C^{\infty}(S^{1})$, $U=\{F\in C^{\infty}(S^{1})\mid |F(1)|<\pi \}$ is open in $C^{\infty}(S^1)$, and 