> [!definition] Topological Vector Space
> A topological vector space is a [[Vector Spaces#^f4b63e|vector space]] that is also a [[Topological Spaces#^65c94a|topological space]], where the vector space operations (addition and scalar multiplication) are [[Continuous Functions on Topological Spaces#^33ee5a|continuous]] with respect to the topology.

<u><b>e.g.</b></u>  Banach spaces, Hilbert spaces, and Sobolev spaces are all examples of topological vector spaces.

> [!definition] Locally Convex Space
>  A topological vector space is locally convex if it has a [[Topological Spaces#^2fc468|basis]] of its topology consisting of [[Convex Sets#^3a9d82|convex]] open subsets.
> 

In practice, it is often useful to define a locally convex space by means of a family of seminorms.

> [!definition] Seminorm
> A *seminorm* on a complex or real topological vector space $X$ is a map $p\colon X\to \R$ such that the following properties hold:
> - nonnegativity: $p(x)\geq 0$ for all $x \in X$,
> - absolute homogeneity: $p(\lambda x) = |\lambda| p(x)$ for all $\lambda \in \C$ and $x \in X$,
> - triangle inequality: $p(x+y) \leq p(x) + p(y)$ for all $x,y \in X$.
>$\quad$

> [!proposition] Alternative Characterization of Locally Convex Spaces
> A topological vector space $X$ is locally convex if and only if its topology is induced by a countable family of seminorms. That is, its topology is the coarsest topology such that each seminorm is continuous.
> 

## Fréchet Spaces

> [!definition] Fréchet Space
> A topological vector space $X$ is a *Fréchet space* if it is, locally convex, metrizable and [[Complete Metric Space#^67b510|complete]].

> [!remark]+
> The original definition due to Stefan Banach defines Fréchet spaces as metrizable complete topological vector spaces, which does not require local convexity. The books of Waelbroeck (1971) and Wilansky (1978) follow this original definition.

The following propositions help to verify if a given space is Fréchet:

> [!proposition]
> A locally convex space is metrizable if and only if its topology can be generated by a countable separating (for every non-zero $x\in X$, there must be at least one seminorm $p$​ such that $p(x)>0$) family of seminorms.
> 

<u><b>e.g.</b></u>  
- Clearly, any Banach space is a Fréchet space, since it is complete and metrizable by the norm.
- The space of real smooth functions $C^{\infty}(\R)$ is a Fréchet space with the seminorms defined by $$p_{k,n}(f)=\sup_{x\in [-n,n]}\left|f^{(k)}(x)\right|$$for each nonnegative integers $k$ and $n$.
- If $M$ is a [[Compactness of Metric Space#^8c1327|compact]] [[Manifolds and Atlases#^6ef2ef|smooth manifold]], then the space of smooth functions $C^\infty(M)$ is a Fréchet space. This holds for some non-compact manifolds as well, such as the real line $\R$.


## References
- [Maria Infusino, Topological Vector Spaces (2017)](https://www.math.uni-konstanz.de/~infusino/TVS-SS17/teachingSS2017.html).
- [Dietmar Vogt, Lectures on Fréchet Spaces](http://www2.math.uni-wuppertal.de/~vogt/vorlesungen/fs.pdf).
- [Paul Garrett, Seminorms and locally convex spaces](https://www-users.cse.umn.edu/~garrett/m/fun/notes_2012-13/07b_seminorms.pdf).
