## The Postulates of Classical Mechanics

A series of experimental facts is at the basis of classical mechanics. These facts are summarized in the following principles:

> [!principle] Space and Time Principle
> Our space is three dimensional and Euclidean, and time is one-dimensional.

> [!principle] Galileo's Principle of Relativity
> There exist coordinate systems (called inertial) possessing the following two properties:
> 1. All laws of nature at all moments of time are the same in all inertial coordinate systems.
> 2. All coordinate systems in uniform rectilinear motion with respect to an inertial system are themselves inertial systems.
> $\quad$

<u><b>e.g.</b></u>  If a coordinate system attached to the earth is inertial, then an experimenter on a train which is moving uniformly in a straight line with respect to the earth cannot detect the motion of the train by experiments conducted entirely inside his car.

> [!remark]
> In reality, the coordinate system associated with the earth is only approximately inertial. Coordinate systems associated with the sun, the stars, etc. are more nearly inertial.

> [!principle] Newton's Principle of Determinacy
> The initial state of a mechanical system (the totality of positions and velocities of its points at some moment of time) uniquely determines all of its motion.

## The Galilean Spacetime

> [!definition] Affine Space
> An $n$-dimensional *affine space* is a set $A$ equipped with an $n$-dimensional (real) [[Vector Spaces#^f4b63e|vector space]] $V$ and a [[Group Actions#^065d30|transitive]] and [[Group Actions#^fddea8|free action]] of the additive group of $V$ on $A$. The elements of the affine space $A$ are called *points*, the group action is called a *parallel displacement*. We shall denote such an affine space as $(A,V)$.
> An *affine map* between affine spaces $(A,V)$ and $(B,W)$ is a function $f\colon A\to B$ together with a linear map $\varphi\colon V\to W$ such that $$f(v\cdot a) = \varphi(v) \cdot f(a)$$

> [!remark]-
> The sum of two points in $A$ is not defined, but their difference can be uniquely identified as a vector in $V$. Thus the above condition for an affine map can be rewritten as $$\varphi(a'-a)=f(a')-f(a)$$

> [!definition] Galilean Space
> A *Galilean spacetime* is a 4-dimensional affine space $(A,\R^{4})$ equipped with a linear mapping $t\colon \R^{4} \to \R$ called the *time*. The points of $A$ are called *events* or *world points*. The *time interval* from event $a\in A$ and $b\in A$ is the number $t(b-a)$, if $t(b-a)=0$, then the events $a$ and $b$ are called *simultaneous*.
> 

> [!proposition] 
> The set of events simultaneous with a given event forms a 3-dimensional affine subspace, it is called the *simultaneous events*.
> 

> [!definition] Galilean Group
> The *Galilean group* is the [[Groups, Order and Subgroups#^6e0960|group]] of all transformations of a Galilean space which preserve its structure (i.e., affine transformations that preserves intervals of time and the distance between simultaneous events). The elements of this group is called *Galilean transformations*. ^ed935d

> [!lemma]
> All Galilean spacetimes are isomorphic to each other, and, in particular, isomorphic to the coordinate space $\R \times \R^3$.  

> [!theorem]
> The Galilean group is generated by time translations, space translations, spatial rotations, and constant‑velocity boosts. In other words, in the coordinate form, any Galilean transformation looks like $$(x,t)\mapsto (Rx+vt+a, t+s)$$
> where $R\in \SO_{3}$ is a [[Linear Groups#^2ce0d2|rotation]], $v\in\R^{3}$ is a constant velocity boost, $a\in\R^4$ is a constant spatial translation, and $s\in\R$ is a time translation.
